Welcome back to the Yahowah vlog.
I'm your host, Craig Winn,
and this handsome fellow, he, of course,
is Wookie.
We're in the library studio,
which means we're going to return to our
present theme,
which is another episode of the final word
picture.
It is the story of the thirty first
and concluding Mashal or proverb.
It is easily the most difficult story I
have ever told.
I've been with you in pursuit of the
tRuwth, finding it, sharing it,
translating it, interpreting it,
coming to understand it now for twenty
four and a half years.
And this quite simply is the most amazing
find thus far.
I may have made a slight mistake, however,
and that I left up my
the remainder of the tea bottle by my
feet and Qara found it.
So it has become a joyous toy for
them to scrape along the floor.
All right.
So the reason I say that this is
the most difficult job I've ever done is
twofold.
One of the reason for this intervention
back three thousand years ago is because
our king
a man we love and adore more than
any other, acted very badly.
This morning,
I have been in the midst of translating
and presenting,
commenting on Dowd's behavior when he was
fifty-six years old,
fourteen years from the end of his first
of three lives.
It's the story of Bathsheba,
and we will get to it because it
is part of this story in a future
episode.
But it's breathtaking in its implications.
And so reporting this kind of information
about our king is hard.
I shared my translation of
Second Samuel,
eleven with Rich not more than fifteen
minutes ago.
And I think the first time I've heard
Rich release an F-bomb.
It's a WTF moment.
It is.
It's tough.
And Yahowah
did everything but give up.
His reaction is presented in the twelfth
chapter of Second Samuel.
And it's heartbreaking.
So this intervention is what ultimately
saved the world.
Now, you might say, okay, well,
that's the good part.
But yes, it is.
And this intervention,
it's clearly performed by a woman whom
Yahowah and Dowd announced elsewhere is the
‘Amah, the productive mother.
Here she is called the Ashar and the
greatest of women.
So this is extraordinary.
She is the wife of Yada.
Now,
You might say, okay, well,
isn't that glorious?
You were able to go back in time,
Leah was,
and it's clearly a one-two punch.
When you read many of the other mashal,
they talk about this incidence,
and it's a husband and wife,
it's the two of us,
dealing with our adopted son.
He needed counseling.
He needed an intervention.
And you might say, well,
isn't that glorious?
You had this opportunity to do that.
Yes and no.
That was another life, long,
long time ago.
This is a very different life.
You see,
what I have determined is that since God
cannot take someone back in time to
interact back in time without destroying
the universe,
it would literally rip apart the universe
if you were to do so.
It would change cause and effect.
It's written really into the fabric of
light and how light is the governing
aspect of the universe.
You can't go back in time.
So knowing that,
the only way that Yahowah could keep his
plan on track when it was on the
verge of falling apart was to have someone
that someone's in particular,
that were souls that he could insert when
he needed them and bring them back out.
And one of the things I shared is
that this is manifest in the hinted form
by Enoch.
Enoch is actually Chanowk is the proper
name.
And it means that somebody who was
prepared, devoted and deployed.
It's what his name means.
And God used him and then withdrew him.
And he is the standard for this practice.
When God needs someone to intervene in
such a way that resolves an issue that
would otherwise preclude the normal
implementation of his plan,
he sends them in and he withdraws them.
And if he does so in the ordinary
flow of time, there is no issue.
And the souls that he uses to do
this only need to know enough at that
particular time to do that particular job.
And there is no reason that they would
need to have a reservoir of memory of
what they did in the previous time.
Although I'm sure that there have been
overlapping instances where
She or I had this memory,
but each of us, all of us,
gets to live one life,
even if you're one of those unique
individuals that God had searched
throughout time.
You get to live one life that's completely
subject to free will.
You know,
Leah was struggling this morning when I
met with her on this subject and saying,
you know, did I have free will?
How was I used in this way?
Why don't I have a memory of it?
And I said,
because you haven't processed how God
deploys nepesh souls.
All he is obliged to do is to
make certain that in one insertion,
one time that our souls are active,
that we are...
conceived the old fashioned way in that
life.
And in that life that we enter it
with a clean slate as a nepesh and
a neshamah,
and we have the opportunity to demonstrate
that we will come to know Yah,
come to love Him,
come to appreciate who He is,
become Towrah observant,
do the very things
that Yahowah ultimately needs us to do to
be useful, to be observant,
to be responsive, and to be reliable.
And for us, that is this life.
In the others,
we had other responsibilities and set in
for other purposes.
But it's not like Yahowah is trying to
have a
huge cast of characters so that the
players are difficult to follow.
And so he is quite committed to having
a certain group of people serve in a
particular capacity.
And with our beloved King Dowd,
who is returning,
brilliant as the sun in our presence,
well, his throne is anyway, the Kaporeth,
the mercy seat of the Ark of the
Covenant,
and he's represented by the son, Adode is,
he's the greater luminary.
He needed mothering, he needed fathering,
he needed parenting,
he needed someone to give him counsel.
And it appears that that's gonna be a
role that we get to play going forward.
So this is an ongoing story and it's,
I don't expect that,
All of you or even many of you
or even most of you are going to
appreciate the complexity of this,
of the idea that God would have a
mother and father figure in support
particularly of his beloved son when his
son came off the rails and how that
was possible some three thousand years ago
and the same
souls the same nepesh that perform that
role can talk to you this day from
this stage but it is as i'm sharing
it and you don't have to know that
you don't have to agree with it to
capitalize on what god is offering
vis-a-vis the covenant it's incremental
It explains a lot.
It puts all the pieces of the picture
together.
It brings it all into focus.
It's a marvelous way for God to tell
his story,
his way that he did it all the
way that he had promised when he spoke
to Moshe after the children of Israel had
said,
we don't want to see you or hear
from you again,
that he would do it all through people.
And he did.
So God did it his way.
God was able to demonstrate and is
demonstrating, I should say,
that it was indeed possible for someone to
figure it out, even if it was,
in both cases,
more than halfway through their mortal
existence, their first life,
their first life born the old-fashioned
way.
that they would figure it out somewhere
along the way.
They would become observant.
They'd become responsive and engaged,
giving you their all, God, their all,
and ultimately become reliable,
seeing it through.
There was a lovely song that was posted
by the son of the gentleman, Will O'Brien,
that his son's name is Jake.
It was on Family Hour last Friday evening
during the Shabbat show.
And I started by kidding it with Will
saying, you know,
you're one of the few people who's we
know by a last name where you're the
second fiddle in your family.
And, you know, he looked at kind of,
you know,
why am I being disparaged here by my
name?
And I said, it's because your son, Jake,
is one of the very favorites in the
Covenant family.
And, you know, then he smiled, of course,
he's a proud father of his son.
Well, Jake posted a song and it was,
it has a,
a cartoonish illustration of the picture
that Leah took of me before.
There's a beautiful rainbow behind me
standing on our deck.
And he wrote a song about the life
of Yahowah's Nakar and what it's going to
be like to serve as the Adamah
Parah.
And in it,
he twice or maybe even more times
mentioned the word perfect before the Adamah
Parah
And it struck a chord with me because
one of the more intelligent people
rebuttals to our constant presentation of
Jesus never existed,
and Dowd is the Messiah and Son of
God who fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym, becoming our Savior,
was that a Christian said that's not
possible because he wasn't perfect.
He had a man killed so he could
steal his wife.
And that's a tough question.
situation to respond to.
Of course,
Jesus wasn't perfect because he never
existed,
and he was in contradiction to the Towrah,
which made him even far worse.
And there is no indication that,
of course,
even the myth is not even associated with
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym, so that it...
myth accomplished nothing.
It's all a counterfeit and lie,
so that certainly isn't perfect.
So it's not like Christianity has the
perfect,
but isn't it supposed to be the perfect
lamb that fulfills Passover and did this
horrible thing?
So I decided that when I saw the
word perfect in his song,
I heard it three times,
that I would actually study
the etymology of that word.
Tamym is the Hebrew word that is typically
translated perfect.
And even it means just to continue to
be steadfast in doing something,
to be consistent,
to show integrity in this regard.
And of course we can live up with
that,
but all of those are derivative from its
actionable root, which is Tamam.
And the actionable root Tamam means to
finish the job,
to be wholly devoted to completing what
needs to be done,
to fulfill the prophecy and to do so
wholeheartedly to the very end.
So God's definition of perfect therefore
is what we're doing.
We've been doing it now for nearly twenty
five years and we're going to see it
through to the end.
And although Dowd had a timeout for for
bad behavior,
the fact is that he started at eight
and he made it all the way through
fifty six before he went off the rails.
So, you know, that's what,
forty eight years.
I haven't invested forty eight years in
this yet.
I've just shared.
I've I've been at it for twenty four
and a half.
He had me beat by by twice.
Right.
By the time that he went off the
rails, he was consistent up to that point.
And then ultimately he did the same thing
that Moshe did.
Moshe after.
A year of the first year really of
leading the children of Israel during the
Exodus came to God and said,
this job is impossible.
I don't want to do it anymore.
And if you have any respect for me,
you'll just kill me now because I don't
want to continue.
But he did.
He made a deal with God.
They got the children of Israel to the
promised land and God showed Moshe that he
had a couple of guys that he was
going to bring into the historic to finish
the job.
But
getting people to stick with it and to
finish the job and to be therefore
Yahowah's definition of perfect,
which is just to be reliable.
All right, pay attention,
be responsive and be responsible.
It's not a lot,
but God's had a tough time finding people
that would do that.
And it is what made Dowd ultimately
perfect for the role is because he not
only lived,
The first from eight to fifty six,
forty eight years of his life was devoted
to doing what needed to be done.
That's eight more than than Moshe.
And it's twice as much as mine up
to this point.
He after the counseling that we're reading
about here from his adoptive mother and
subsequently from his adoptive father,
He manned up,
and in his second of three lives,
he fulfilled Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
allowing the Romans to crucify his body,
being the lone eyewitness to the event and
telling us all about it in the
twenty-second Mizmowr.
And then having the courage,
the compassion,
the character to be the only man to
carry
his own and others' guilt into She'owl and
to spend Matsah there,
carrying our guilt away so that we could
earn the right to be seen as perfect
in God's eyes,
not because we were blameless,
but because with our guilt gone,
we're in a position where we can finish
the job.
And that is the story that God is
telling.
And this is the story that was necessary
to hear.
Now,
as we've gone through this presentation,
I have shared that my marriage to Leah
was an arranged one.
Yahowah sent her to me eighteen years ago.
As I told my wife around lunch today
when she was still struggling with all of
this because she is an introvert and this
has come at her like a flood.
And I at least had the first ten
years of being more or less anonymous
before the last
fourteen to fifteen have been lived in the
spotlight and so i had this time to
build up to this um now she's had
it too i mean we've been together eighteen
years and uh constant um Towrah study and
growth before she's learned that she's a
key player in god's story but as a
woman who is more of an introvert
It's harder on her than it probably was
on me.
Although I'm,
as I've kidded with everybody,
I'm going to revert back to being an
introvert,
which is what I was growing up once
this is all over.
I might hibernate for a little while.
You're probably going to need a vacation
after all of this.
Yes,
we might go from being a bull to
a bear.
Yeah.
and hibernate for a while,
I'm sure that God will give us the
strength to go on.
And we need to finish the job,
and we will.
But it's important for you to know that
when searching for who God was,
who she didn't know God's name at the
time,
and trying to find what he wanted out
of her life, God responded to her.
God doesn't have to respond to everyone,
but she had grown away from religion.
She was not political,
not religious at the time.
She was genuinely seeking,
and she reached out to God,
and God directed her in the following way.
He said, go ask Ruwth.
So she did.
And when she did, she read.
Then he, this would be her future husband,
someone that she was just meeting now for
the first time.
His name is Bo'az.
It means with strength, with resolve,
with determination.
Then he asked with ongoing implications,
who are you?
The same question that Leah would ask of
me.
The same question she would ask later of
her adopted son, Dowd.
She answered, I am Ruwth,
longing and striving to shepherd the
flock.
I am Ruwth,
longing to shepherd and striving to care
for the flock,
tending to and feeding the sheep as your
‘Amah, your productive mother.
Now, of course,
Ruwth was not Bo'az's mother,
but she would be a model for being
the mother of all Yisrael.
She was pronouncing the arrival of the
Amah.
The Amah permeate the Mizmowr,
where Dowd says that he is exceedingly
grateful to Yahowah for Yahowah sending his
‘Amah to him,
his productive mother to Dowd,
who released Dowd from the bondage of the
considerable guilt that was holding him
down for having done such a horrible thing
in his life.
And so Ruwth here is now announcing,
I am your ‘Amah.
Just as Leah has become the ‘Amah to
her Bo'az.
She is the productive mother of the
covenant.
It's a point, by the way,
that Yasha'Yah Isaiah makes perfectly clear
in the fifty-fourth chapter where he
speaks about the barren woman who will
conceive so many children as part of the
covenant that everything has to be
enlarged just to make room for God's
expanding family.
So he says, I am Ruwth,
longing and striving to shepherd the flock
as your productive mother.
So spread out the hem of your garment
as your wings over your ‘Amah,
your maternal coworker,
who is branded and marked to deliver the
Gaal, the kinsman redeemer to save you.
And she would,
that is the story we are articulating now
in the final word picture,
the ‘Amah as the Ashar,
which was the very thing that Leah
prescribed of herself saying that she
would be the beneficial and blessed one.
Uh,
that's how she would be remembered and
known.
as a result of being a adoptive mother
of Asher, one of the sons of Israel.
So Ruwth, longing to serve as a shepherd,
as has Leah,
to service as the productive mother
from her instructions regarding her future
husband's apparel to delivering the
kinsmen redeemer to him.
This was so specific to our situation and
to this situation.
It's obvious that God had this planned all
along, thirty-one centuries ago.
many generations before Dowd was even
born.
You're gonna have to get up pretty early
in the day if you're gonna beat Yahowah
to a prophecy.
Now, even more amazing,
the man that she was addressing as her
future husband, as I've shared,
his name was Bo'az.
The proper pronunciation is probably ba-az
or ba-oz.
It means in strength, with power.
He was the man that had the endurance
to prevail.
His name would serve to identify the north
or left pillar of the temple because he
would serve as a template,
a harbinger of the left hand of God.
The south column, the one on the right,
the right hand of God,
the one closest to the city of Dowd,
because the temple, as you know,
faces east,
so on the right hand would be the
south side,
which is below that would be Dowd's home
and the city of Dowd,
down the ridgeline of Moriahhhhhh.
So on the right side,
towards the city of Dowd,
it was named Yakyn,
one with the ability to overcome.
to succeed and endure.
Dowd would have to overcome malfeasance of
his own making.
When I share with you what he did
and said,
it's going to make your skin crawl to
understand what he had to overcome to
return to that position as the right hand
of God.
and as the yakyn.
Now these two ‘Amuwdym , columns,
which means stand together,
means that they were forever juxtaposed as
supporting pillars.
They would create an alam,
a permanent bond,
on the porch of the hykel,
the temple and royal residence for the
covenant family.
I want to read this to you because
it means that the go ask Ruwth was
quite the setup by God.
It not only directed Leah to her role
as Amah, the protective mother,
to her role as a shepherdess,
which is also part of what Leah,
the name conveys.
but also to her future husband, Bo'az,
one strengthened to prevail,
who would be forever linked to Dowd,
to Yahowah's temple,
to one of the two columns,
the one on the left side.
It was all there, every bit of it.
Go ask Ruwth.
So to prove that point,
I want to share with you what we
know about those two columns.
It reads, he established,
erecting by standing upright,
that which pertains to the ‘Amuwdym ,
the support pillars.
‘Amuwdym means the unifying juxtaposition of
that which is side by side
standing and grounded,
remaining and enduring,
such that they take a unified stand and
remain together.
For the Alam, the portico,
to make a permanent bond on the porch
of the Hykel, the temple,
the royal residence and grand palace.
the temple.
So you can say, oh,
they're just columns of stone.
What's the big deal?
Well, they were erected to stand upright.
They pertain to ‘Amuwdym ,
support pillars that convey the unifying
juxtaposition of that which will always
remain side by side,
standing up and grounded,
remaining and enduring.
unified in their stance together.
And they are along on the port to
go to make a permanent bond on the
porch of the Hykel,
the royal residence and grand palace.
Well, that should have been enough,
but there's more.
When he established and stood upright,
that which pertains to the ‘Amuwd ,
unifying juxtaposition of the support
pillar, on the right hand side or south,
he was called and proclaimed,
read aloud and summoned for the Miqra’ by
that which is associated with his name,
reputation and renown, as Yakyn.
the one with the ability to overcome,
succeed and endure.
His hand establishes and is victorious.
And he established standing upright,
that which pertains to the amud,
the support pillar,
by his side to endure standing together on
the left-hand side or north.
So he was called and proclaimed,
read aloud and summoned for the Miqra’ as
well,
by that which was associated with his name
and reputation, his renown, Bo'az,
powerful one, with prevailing strength.
That's from Melekym, One King, seven,
twenty-one.
Well,
The king's renown as Yakyn,
the hand who establishes us.
It is through this intervention that we
have been studying that he was able to,
Yakyn, overcome his prior mistakes.
This is how he came to succeed in
the fulfillment of the Miqra’.
And it's the way that he is now
given this opportunity to return as
our Melek and quwm.
Standing Amud beside him,
just twelve cubits apart.
Twelve tribes, right?
Forever juxtaposed.
Even sama’ly, clothed for the occasion.
Eighteen cubits high.
With cubit also being Amah.
was Bo'az,
the powerful and prevailing bull of
Taruwah, his herald,
his adoptive mother's husband,
and his adoptive father.
And so addressing the twelve tribes of
Yisrael,
he is reporting this eighteen years after
being introduced to the Amah,
after he searched for the meaning of
Asher.
But I'm sure that it's all just a
colossal cosmic coincidence.
Or maybe not.
Now,
just as mothers dress their children while
trying to properly clothe their husbands,
Leah will always be known for adorning the
covenant family,
beginning with her Baal and Ben.
Should you not be attired in one of
Leah's designs,
you will likely be omitted from the chag
party.
I say that based on what follows.
Commonly,
invitations include a reference to
acceptable attire, do they not?
When you're invited to a party,
don't you read
that the attire is casual or it's formal
or something in between,
business casual sometimes.
There's always a dress code.
But there isn't on one of Yahowah's
invitations.
Do you know why?
Nahum was providing it.
The attendees on Taruwah,
on the wedding and family reunion,
during Kipurym,
and then as we enter the garden on
Sukah,
will be properly festooned for the
occasion.
Gratis the ‘Amah
And may I remind you,
Leah's career as she was a young woman
growing up in South Florida was as a
fashion designer.
Linen garments which envelop,
she has made.
And she values offering as a quid pro
quo.
She will give and offer in exchange,
surrendering and transferring possession
of something highly treasured.
And celebratory sashes for the feasts,
she offers as a gift to the canonai,
the merchant salesman.
The one engaged in trade,
buying and selling.
Canaanite, you know,
if we're reading this in the Towrah,
we would have translated it Canaan and
explained it that it means merchant
salesman.
But the Canaanites were long gone by this
point.
We're now dealing with this is being
revealed circa three thousand years ago,
long after the Canaanites were gone.
And so the gift is to her merchant
salesman.
More on that in a moment.
So it reads here that the linen garments
which envelop,
she has made and she values offering them
as a quid pro quo.
She transfers something highly treasured.
As celebratory sashes for the feast,
this is chagor.
It would mean all things pertaining to the
chag.
The chagowr, like the Miqra'ey,
is chag Matsah and chag Sukah.
And she offers them as a gift.
to her Kane and I, her merchant salesman,
the one who is gauged in trade,
buying and selling.
That's Mashal, word picture,
in thirty-one twenty-four.
Well,
just as she is a fashion designer by
trade, I am Kana’any
I am a merchant salesman.
I have spent over a score of years
doing so.
And if you want to read about it,
do you want some evidence that this is
true?
Read In the Company if you're curious as
to why I earned this distinction.
In the Company is now presented at the
Bottom of the Yada Yahowah page,
if you click on books,
the number of links that they top,
and they have grown.
If you click on books,
the last bottom row of books,
after you see an introduction to God,
and then you see the three books there,
and then the nine that are part of
the Yada Yahowah series,
and the five that are part of the
observation series,
and then you see the three that are
part of coming home,
followed by the three that are part of
the Babel series and the five that are
part of twistianity and another five that
are part of goddamn religion,
excoriating Islam,
down there all by its lonesome.
You'll find in the company.
I'm a merchant salesman.
I spent over a score of years doing
that very thing.
And Leah will be establishing the Bachar,
this quid pro quo,
as remuneration for her garments.
I suspect that she will ask nothing more
than what Dowd and Yada are offering,
respect and appreciation.
That'll be difficult for some,
a price too hard for them to pay.
With all of the splendor and majesty
associated with Kipurym,
the day of reconciliations when Yahowah
returns with Dowd, the mother of the groom,
will be the most beautiful woman in
attendance.
Even if she is four to six thousand
year old by the time,
it's kind of a strange thing that we
are old souls,
but we'll have refurbished bodies.
Strength.
And dignity.
oh
What was the name of that fellow that
was going to be the ‘Amah's husband?
Obed-Edom?
No.
He is Obed-Edom in this life.
That is for true.
Bo'az
Yeah.
Strength.
It's Oz here.
It can be pronounced Oz or O's.
It's where they got the name Wizard of
Oz.
The great mighty Oz.
Well, that's what O's means.
Great and mighty.
So this anyway is strength.
It's interesting to come off the story of
Bo'az when this is,
it means with a hose.
Strength and dignity,
a most beautiful appearance and noble
status and character, Hadar.
Adorn her and she is amused and
entertained.
She's smiling and laughing
during the day to come, at long last,
and throughout the future.
Mashal, word picture, Proverbs,
thirty-one, twenty-five.
I tried to remind Leah of that today
as she's stressing out.
When I came in to get her for
this broadcast, she was flat out napping.
She spent all night up reading everything
she could find on this role of being
a mother to the Covenant family and a
surrogate mother to Dowd.
And so she was,
as this prophecy has already foretold,
burning the midnight oil and was up all
night doing this.
And so she collapsed not long ago.
And it's a lot of stress.
There are those who I'm sure will say,
you know,
how egotistical of you to claim this.
And it's exactly the opposite.
It is so much easier being an unnamed
player that gets to contribute,
gets to earn Yao's favor and respect.
because everything that you do is on the
plus side of the ledger.
There aren't established expectations and
responsibilities,
just unlimited opportunities.
And that's really the best possible
position to be in.
But she's no longer in that position and
it's uncomfortable for her because she has
watched me over the last eighteen years
that she's known me and the more I
become known as a
As a contributor to God's overall story,
the bigger the target grows and the more
I'm attacked.
Rich said, you know,
it's really a great job.
So I go out and I do a
blog that says,
I killed Jesus and denounced the
credibility of the most popular religion
in the world.
I've written the definitive books proving
that Allah is Satan and that Muhammad was
not a prophet.
Now I've got a five point five billion
people at my throat that want to either
denigrate me or kill me for having fun
so far.
Then I have to tell the the Maga
that their president,
that they are all but worshiping as a
messiah, is equivalent to the Antichrist,
that he is demon possessed.
That, of course,
puts me in fine stead with the
Republicans.
And then I have to tell Democrats that
as an expert on economics and world
history,
I can tell them that Marxism and socialism
is completely counterproductive and that
their current
rage against Israel is going to put them
in the crosshairs of God's displeasure.
And then, of course,
I get to remind everyone on social media
that these platforms have become toxic,
that
Artificial intelligence is dumbing the
world down,
that there's generations now that have no
character,
don't know what it's like to work and
make a contribution,
and that the most popular influencers are
a bad influence.
So how am I doing so far?
Is that maybe why I have thirty thousand
posts on X and slightly over two thousand
followers?
I would say that's probably a direct
correlation.
Oh, and by the way,
I'm also having to ridicule AI,
including Brock and the founder of of X
for having lost his way.
And I'm not real pleased with the founder
of Facebook right now because he's
kowtowing to a new version of cop out
thought police.
So it puts you in a very unpopular
position to speak for Yahowah.
And it's never been any different.
So she is now dealing with this.
And of course,
it's reeling from it because it's a it's
tough call.
And God's not going to accept anything
less than the last full ounce of our
devotion.
That is what is expected of us.
So Leah will be accompanied by Oz, Bo'az,
with strength, and that man, he,
is her Baal, her husband.
But even independently,
she is becoming a strong woman in her
own right,
and this is part of building her up.
I had to remind her again today when
she is so concerned about the added
responsibility, I said to her that,
You were brought to me.
I am your veil.
I am responsible for you.
And therefore, it's my job to fortify you,
to equip you, to teach you,
to protect you, to enable you.
So eventually,
you're going to need to learn to relax
and enjoy this job under those
circumstances.
although Mailea would prefer to lean on
the strength of her man and will again
once she has processed some of this.
Knowing her,
she would find a million excuses to skip
the party without me holding her hand.
If I were not there with her,
you would see her as a seventh time
runaway bride.
Done it six times already.
It is just who she is.
And it's who we are.
By way of confession,
when I was first introduced to Lisa,
now Leah, by Asher,
our Snow White Labrador puppy of eight
weeks at the time,
I already knew that we were a perfect
match in values, priorities, proclivities,
personality, and intellect.
In appearance, however,
she was different than anyone I had ever
dated.
So as a visual creature,
when she showed up in boots up to
her knees and in a trench coat down
to below the top of her boots in
South Florida, this overcoat,
because it was too chilly for her in
Florida, I wasn't smitten initially.
It was while sitting on this park bench
outside the airport in California,
front of baggage claim that I thought to
myself, well,
this may be nothing more than the lunch
that she had suggested.
So it would take me a few hours
to change my mind.
I had sweet talked her into a relaxing
and therapeutic jacuzzi that I had
installed on the flybridge of my yacht,
which was named Qara.
which was docked alongside the inland
waterway in the backyard of my South
Florida home.
She was so shy,
she managed to slink in behind a towel
unseen into that jacuzzi.
But when she flew out of it moments
later to rescue Asher,
who had scrambled too far aft before the
rails were installed all around that aft
deck,
Seeing her for the first time dripping wet
in her bathing suit, well,
all I could think was to ask her
who had made her so exquisitely beautiful.
And of course,
now she is the most beautiful woman in
the world to me,
with a truly noble status,
glorious character,
and completely amusing and often
entertaining personality.
As she says, I am an acquired taste.
Yes, but it's one that I've curated.
Now,
as one would expect when I look at
places other than her eyes, you know,
she opens her mouth and says,
I'm glad that you like what you see,
but my brain is what matters most.
And it's a little higher than you're
presently looking, love.
And then she smiles.
This is what was written.
She opens her mouth with wisdom,
intelligently revealing the capacity to
understand.
And a loyal love and affection,
showing great favoritism and devotion for
the Towrah.
Its guidance and teaching are on her
tongue.
Proverbs, word picture, thirty-one,
twenty-six.
Leah has many interests, but one love,
Towrah.
She may be among the most Towrah-observant
women ever.
When the ‘Amah speaks words of Chokmah
wisdom,
intelligence emerges.
She has been gifted with uncommon mental
acumen.
And her forte is in chokmah,
showing the mental aptitude to understand
Yahowah's Towrah guidance and teaching.
It is the Chesed, love of her life.
And to God's instructions and directions,
she is absolutely devoted.
I would be remiss if I didn't add
that Dowd begins his poetic presentation
of the Choter,
which is probably the most important of
the prophetic prophecies regarding the
role that I've been asked to play.
And he does so by saying that the
Choter's wife is Chokmah,
exceptionally wise.
And since this discussion has been
sensual, in addition to cerebral,
One of the first things I learned about
Leah is that she is a sapiosexual.
Most people don't even know what that
means.
Fortunately,
I did when she first sprung it on
me.
And it means that when it comes to
getting her motor running,
intellect trumps appearance and brains are
more important than brawn.
That is how she's being depicted here.
Now, as
Those with whom we share our lives know,
as after cruising in Qara to the Virgin
Islands,
Leigh and I have built our love nest
overlooking the sea,
where the Amah is queen of her castle.
She keeps watch, always on the lookout.
in the ways, walk,
and affairs of her family and home.
She does not consume or feed upon the
bread of conflict of those who lack
discipline, are immoral,
the idle or the lazy,
the sluggish and inert,
who are inactive and fail to take
initiative and make a contribution.
Boy, is that ever layout.
Leah has been devoted to her people and
the Covenant family for, well,
now we know thousands of years,
culminating in our home,
which has become a studio for the Yahowah
blog.
From her office,
she produces all of our branding and
composes marvelous songs to draw attention
Yisrael, back home to Yahowah
She doesn't now produce all of it,
but she coordinates all of it.
She has a group of men and women
who contribute mightily to the enterprise
at this point.
Now Leah has no interest in nor use
for the undisciplined or the immoral,
even the idle and lazy.
In her view,
either contribute or get out of the way.
She would say, get off my porch.
Either stand up for what is right or
and to be against those who are wrong
are, yes, indeed, yet off her porch.
And just as this states,
and as Dowd no Dowd observed,
her focus is on the positive and uplifting
rather than the bread of conflict.
Her family matters,
and that includes the covenant.
In fact, that is her family,
but expressly excludes rivals and
naysayers, troublemakers and antagonists.
Her walk is with Yah and that takes
her away from all of those who are
in conflict with him.
Now this next statement was an even bigger
shock than the positive references to
Baal.
Then after considering what Leah said for
a thousand years ago,
the
actual meaning of the word,
the realization that it represents one of
the twelve names comprising Yisrael,
and the fact that the adversary seeks to
corrupt what Yahowah cherishes.
Well,
claiming this title began to make perfect
sense.
Yahowah is restoring more than just the
planet for our return to Eden.
He is also cleaning up our vocabulary too.
You know,
one of the reasons that I had such
a tough time with Leah's husband, Yada,
being Baal,
is that I think of the great orator,
ElYah, criticizing the prophets of Baal.
But he went off after the religious
interpretation of it,
not what the word means, which is husband.
And if you recall that while there were
four hundred and fifty religious advocates
for their false interpretation of Baal,
there were also four hundred for their
false interpretation of Ashar,
were there not?
And so by bringing these two names
together, husband and wife,
Baal and Ashar,
God is claiming
the very terms that Satan stole.
It is another reason why ElYah's dress
rehearsal as the man ridding Israel of its
religiosity,
two thousand eight hundred and eighty
years ago is so opportune for this moment
because he got rid of all the naysayers
who were corrupting
what Baal and Ashar would represent
forevermore with God and his people.
So this reads with that introduction,
her children will rise up and take a
stand and they will call her Ashar,
a beneficial blessing.
for having revealed the way to the
relationship.
Her husband, Baal,
the Lord and master too.
He reflects her bright and clear light and
consistently praises her,
extolling her virtues.
Mashal word picture, Proverb, thirty-one,
twenty-eight.
I share this with you honestly and say,
when I first was introduced to this,
because, you know,
I read through everything in the Towrah and
prophets so many, many times,
but it's a whole different experience when
you are examining every word.
when you're not looking at careless
renderings,
but very thoughtful deductions of what
each word says.
And it was less than a month ago
when Leah brought this to my attention and
said,
you need to stop what you're doing and
deal with this.
That's Mashal, thirty-one.
No,
she said it in a way that got
my attention as women sometimes can do and
wives can do.
And I was on a little piece of
paper and I retrieved it right and early
the next morning for a wonderful evening
together.
We read it in Hebrew.
And when we came to this line,
we just looked at each other.
You know, we had so embraced
Ilya's refutation of the prophets,
the religious pontificators for Baal and
Asherah,
and had been so anti-religious that we
naturally came to the conclusion that,
well, those must be bad titles.
And yet there was this problem with that
because
Baal is the only Hebrew word for husband.
And it's a husband who acts as a
lord and master of his home.
In other words, he is there to protect,
to support his wife.
And Asher is my favorite Hebrew word.
No, it means beneficial relationship,
to show the way to the blessings of
the relationship that Yahowah intended.
It's to reveal the means to get the
greatest joy out of life.
It's the first word I translated,
the first word that Dowd wrote in his
first Mizmowr.
It's such a spectacular word.
It was Asher that introduced Leah and I.
I love that word.
And here you have Leah saying that she
will forever be known as Ashar,
blessed and beneficial.
And so we had to process the fact
that everything that Satan covets,
you know,
Jesus being the son of God and the
Messiah and the savior, the chosen one.
When every one of those accolades is
afforded to do David,
Satan coveting the title Baal,
coveting the title Asher.
It's what he does.
He wants to be perceived by the things
of God.
He doesn't want to be the adversary.
He wants to be known by the things
of God.
And so he counterfeits them.
And it opened up our eyes that,
you know,
our
Vocabulary needed a little cleansing too,
and that we were being too black and
white on things.
And sometimes you need to see all the
contours, all the shadings,
all the beauty of a word when rendered
properly and what it can be.
Well,
Yahowah does not want to serve as the
Lord and Master of all.
of his people.
He wants to be father.
God's view of the ideal marriage,
and he's not saying you have to ascribe
to this.
You're free to do however you want in
any of your relationships.
But his view of the ideal marriage has
the man being protective and has the man
taking the lead role and creating the
environment that they can thrive and raise
their family.
And that a ideal wife is supportive in
that way.
And she can express herself with total
confidence,
knowing that she is protected in that kind
of a relationship.
I'm not saying it's for everyone.
It worked for us.
We're presented that way.
She is beneficial.
She's a blessing.
I am very assertive.
I have a commanding presence.
It worked for us.
We're very happy in that.
And this is how God has described us.
So
I recognize that from God's point of view,
these are actually very positive terms.
Asher, of course,
is the word I've loved most of all
right from the beginning.
It's the first word that opened up our
understanding to many thousands more over
the years.
Now, when it says her children,
she was childless up to this point.
She's the barren woman.
Of course, there were six women,
and I will delineate them,
who were barren in God's story,
each of which case it was resolved.
And it's quite a story.
It's all indicative of this story when I
share those stories with you.
And here, the barren woman, we're told,
in Yasha'Yah, fifty-four,
is going to have a huge family.
And that her children,
the covenant family,
are going to rise up
And they're going to take a stand.
It's what we do.
Matter of fact, is not the grain,
the wheat that is collected on Shabuwah
standing grain?
So the covenant family is going to take
a stand.
They are that standing grain.
And they're going to call her.
And Asher here is a verb.
It is presented in the Piel Imperfect
Third Person Masculine Singular.
It says that they're going to call her.
They're going to actively proclaim her.
They're going to pronounce that her name
is Asher,
a positive and encouraging influence,
one who promotes an upright and properly
guided life by leading them along the
correct path.
They will call her Asher.
a beneficial blessing.
And they're going to call her husband
Maul, the Lord, the master.
The Lord and master of the house.
And this time,
with the language of the day,
it was considered an honorarium in a way.
It would be back when I was young,
we called adults, sir.
And we called, if they were male,
and we called women, ma'am.
And it was strictly a sign of respect.
Baal is husband,
and it's a designation of respect so that
the children of the covenant are going to
refer to Leah as Ashar and me as
Baal.
Um, sir, the Lord and master of, um,
the one, um,
who has controlling influence over this
covenant family.
As a matter of fact, I, yeah,
it was really quite clear that, uh,
that in this role and the children that
become covenant, um,
one of the first acts is that I
get to give them to dote here.
They're yours.
I'll watch over you, you watch over them.
And in the case of Leah and I,
we'll watch over you.
These are our children and we're giving
them to you.
And then it concludes in the twenty eighth
statement by he reflects her bright and
clear light and constantly praises her,
reinforces her, extolling her virtues.
You know, for those that might be,
you know, I am woman, hear me roar.
How dare you say that you are Baal,
Lord and master as husband.
And then you're going to have to deal
with this because.
with that added responsibility goes a
whole level of additional commitment to
the relationship,
responsibility to the relationship,
really.
And in this case,
the thing that comes with that is a
reflection of her brilliance.
I'm putting her in a position,
where her virtues can be known,
where they can be seen,
where her light can be shown to the
world, praising her, extolling her,
bragging about her,
appreciating her tremendous value,
her exceptional worth,
her brilliant radius.
So the M, excuse my distraction,
Asher's having a conniption fit with her
toe again.
And so we have an issue with her.
The mother who was sent by Yahowah to
redeem God's son accomplished far more
because by doing so,
she made our adoption into the covenant
family possible.
As Ruwth foretold, she delivered the Gaal,
the kinsman redeemer, to Bo'az,
the one with fortitude and strength.
And he, as her Baal husband,
would restore the Redeemer's reputation
for Yisrael's benefit.
This is how God's story plays out.
So as we know, the Amah,
the productive mother who became Ashar,
the beneficial blessing by promoting her
Baal husband's message regarding her son
to her people is also just as the
prophets foretold,
she is the barren woman who would become
fruitful and productive again.
raising many children.
Leah and then Ruwth claimed these titles on
her behalf,
prophetically revealing one of the most
surprising revelations in God's entire
story,
even if it was hinted at in the
second chapter of the first book in that
series.
Now, in keeping all of this in mind,
just as yada is always portrayed as a
verb,
and thus as an action-oriented
designation, in this case,
ashar is also a verb.
This em was an ‘Amah, productive mother,
because she actively engaged.
With ElYah returning to reprise his role
in refuting those in opposition to Yahowah,
with the uplifting burnt offering of the
bowl,
we are reminded that he roasted the
religious who had falsely claimed that
Baal and Asherah were gods.
It turns out these false prophets were
also guilting of misappropriating key
contributors to God's story.
When Elias serves as the master of
ceremonies over the sacrifice of the Adam
of Parah,
this productive man as the bull of Taruwah,
Ashar will be right there to support her
bail.
It's going to make him smile from ear
to ear,
seeing the full closure of God's story.
So not only am I pleased to see
Leah receiving the recognition her
contributions deserve,
I'm delighted to be prophetically seen
standing beside her as her husband,
as is bequeathed in the ceremonial title,
Ashar, the Blessed and Beneficial.
I have and will continue to halal her,
to reflect her bright and clear light
while consistently praising her by
extolling her virtues.
I have halal appreciated her tremendous
value and her exceptional worth.
And it is obvious that, well,
I'm not alone,
but instead part of a glorious chorus that
has now risen up among her covenant
children.
Now,
the following pronouncement was inspired
by Yahowah.
It was scribed by our king,
who clearly supported his father's
assessment.
It is unique in all of the Towrah
and prophets.
Here at the conclusion of the ultimate
intervention.
we find the king who had previously shown
more interest in women's bodies than their
minds and their sexual proclivity rather
than their mental acuity announcing that
many women may have been highly competent
and that they also engaged admirably.
And then after his tribute to the
contribution of many women,
Dowd addresses the one with the character
to admonish him.
So in these words,
the Ashar introduced by Leah and the Amah
foretold by Ruwth,
the M mother brought by Yah to save
our savior on this occasion,
is afforded a status beyond compare.
We are therefore in the presence of the
Greatest woman who ever lived?
Well, according to Yahowah.
It reads,
many women have acted and engaged,
having performed ably and aptly,
demonstrating the power of their
convictions and their noble character
in highly capable competent and worthy
manners demonstrating tremendous virtue
and strength of courage intervening
powerfully and valuably but you yourself
surpass and rise above them all Mashal
word picture
this the final Mashal has painted the
portrait of the woman who has contributed
more than any other throughout time she
delivered the gaal the kinsman redeemer
through the Berythcovenant family she
became the ‘Amah the most productive of
mothers no one has offered more ashar
blessings or benefits
According to God,
and he knows her best of all,
has been with her for many thousands of
years,
and affirmed this now through his son,
who she returned to his father.
Leah's character is sublime,
and her convictions are noble.
She is deemed capable and competent.
She engaged when others were hesitant.
She performed ably and aptly.
Leah demonstrated that God was right about
us all along.
Given the opportunity, given the time,
given the right woman who was right about
him, we are capable of listening.
We can learn and then respond.
On behalf of her and many other women,
She proved herself worthy before man and
before God.
This is among the most amazing statements
to be found anywhere in an inspired
prophetic text, and it reads,
Many women have acted, engaged,
and performed ably and aptly,
demonstrating the power of their
convictions and noble character,
being capable and competent.
But you, yourself, surpass and rise."
ascending and exalted above them all.
And to think,
there was actually a group of jealous and
embittered women who believed that they
speak for a spirit mom.
A mother god, they say,
is found in the eighth Mashal proverb,
when it has no reference to a Ruwach
or an Em.
Then,
not letting facts frustrate their fantasy,
they Ruwthlessly and relentlessly slandered
the em, a mother,
hailed as the greatest of them all,
along with Yada,
the Baal husband of this amazing Ashar,
blessed and beneficial woman.
Adding to their misfortune,
they would also protest that Dowd could not
have fulfilled Passover,
negating the entire purpose of the final
word picture.
That is why Yahowah took keen aim at
them,
denouncing and destroying them in the
fifty-seventh chapter of Yashayah, Isaiah,
before dispatching them to Sheowl,
but even more.
They get a dishonorable mention by Dowd
here at the conclusion of the Last Mashal.
Turns out the king hates them as much
as does his father.
This reads this disingenuous and vain
display of compassion and favoritism for
popular appeal
is meaningless and it's futile.
It's an idolatrous pursuit and it's wasted
breath.
A woman who is brilliant and beautiful,
reveres and respects Yahowah.
It is she who is to be independently
admired and celebrated without compulsion,
for radiating her brilliant and clear
light.
It is she who is to be extolled.
On your own initiative,
for being worthy of exaltation,
for beaming brightly.
Mashal, word picture, Proverb thirty, one,
thirty.
Lay is the one.
One in eight billion who would thwart the
insidious pleas for popularity of a futile
eight.
who engendered Yahowah's wrath.
Her brilliance and beauty win the day
because she reveres and respects Yahowah.
There is no better informed,
no wiser or more beneficial approach than
this.
So my beloved wife, my present from God,
Yahowah's gift to every man and woman in
the covenant family
should be admired, indeed celebrated,
for all that she has accomplished.
Keep in mind,
this request is being offered by Dowd,
the most acclaimed of men.
A man that never respected a woman for
being anything more than a physical body
is now saying this of a woman.
He said so because Leah enlightened him.
He said so because he discovered that a
woman's beauty was more than skin deep.
He said so because she earned his respect.
He said so because she had more respect
for Yahowah than he had shown.
He said so because she had not intervened,
had she not intervened,
his life and ours were essentially over.
The ‘Amah, productive mother of Yahowah,
would be an Ashar,
beneficial blessing for all.
And it is her garment of luminosity that's
going to adorn every child born into the
Beryth covenant,
beginning with God's firstborn, Dowd.
It is the fruit of the loom,
as the fruit of her hands.
you all have decided to entrust her as
a gift.
And so you should choose to be productive
for her.
Of your own accord,
you are all appointed as a gift,
present for her when approaching her and
producing for her.
And so her contributions and
accomplishments will exclaim that she is
praiseworthy,
she is
Worthy by acknowledging her brilliant
radiance and clear light from within the
inter sanctum of the thoughtful assembly.
Inside the doors,
the gates and the portal of the community
of rational thinkers.
Mashal word picture, Proverbs, thirty-one,
thirty-one.
In the ninth chapter of Isaiah,
we learned that a son was given
And the thirty first Mashal,
we know who gift wrapped him and who
delivered him to us.
It's quite an accomplishment because it
means that a woman saved the world.
Now I will stop here.
Uh,
we're at a hour and twenty one minutes
into this program.
I have a recap of this entire Mashal
from beginning to end.
And I have a recap that is different
than any other I've ever done.
Rather than just starting with the first
statement of the thirty-first Mashal,
the final word picture,
I actually share the prophecies that
foretell of it.
What Yahowah said in the garden about Adam
and Chawah beginning again.
What Leah had to offer to this
conversation.
What Ruwth had to say.
What Dowd acknowledges of the Amah that
Yahowah offered him to release him from
this horrible plight that he had placed
himself in.
I am going to walk you through those
that we intermixed into this long
presentation and then through the last
word picture in its entirety.
And I'll do so at the beginning of
our next program.
And as we do so,
I'm going to move on to the follow-up
prophecy to this, which is Yashayah Isaiah,
Now from there,
which will be many programs from now,
I'm going to take you to where I
am now in translating what Dowd did to
require this intervention.
So we have a lot to learn.
That's a glorious place that God has
brought us,
completing his word picture and time for
us to understand it and share it.
So I thank all of you for
listening for being part of this story and
for sharing it with others.